Let's now go ahead and
talk about the downsides
of completable futures.
Again, we'll compare
and contrast them
with parallel streams.
The main difference
is, it's easier
to program parallel streams
than completable futures.
If you look at these two
chunks of code side by side,
the overall control flow
looks relatively the same.
But when you peek in to see how
the behaviors are implemented,
you'll quickly see that
the asynchronous code,
the asynchronous behaviors,
are a lot more complicated
than the synchronous ones.
And that's really no
surprise, but it's
just something to remember.
So there's a
trade-off to consider
between computing performance
and programmer productivity
when choosing amongst
these different frameworks.
As a general rule,
completable futures
are more efficient
more scalable,
but harder to program,
because people typically
don't understand asynchrony
patterns as well as they
understand synchrony patterns.
And also, parallel streams
are easier to program
but less efficient and
scalable, although they're often
good enough.
One of the neat things
about parallel streams
is, you can use
sequential streams
for the initial development
and then trivially
make them parallel later
by just changing stream
to parallel stream, as
we've seen repeatedly.
So as always, it really helps
to know the best practices,
helps to know the
patterns, in order
to use anything effectively.
And completable futures
are really no different.